[THEME MUSIC]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
Sperry, welcome back.
I wanted to focus in
more on the shadow side,
because it seems that
people are being misled
by certain forms of
spiritual teaching
that are out there right now.
You always have
to think positive.
You always have to
be in a good mood.
If you're not
succeeding, it's bad,
and success means making money.
And specifically I'm
talking about "The Secret."
"The Secret," of
course, as we both know,
put out the idea
that the universe is
like a cosmic gumball
machine, and all
you have to do is just
ask, and cornucopia
will tumble out of the skies.
What do you feel about this
idea that the universe is just
going to grant you
whatever you want
and the idea of the
law of attraction?
People say, well, I don't
want to look at the bad stuff
because I'm not attracting
that into my life.
>>SPERRY ANDREWS:
As creatures tend
to withdraw our attention from
what's threatening and painful
and give it to what's
promising and pleasurable.
And if we divide our
attention that way,
we actually live in a more
contracted and suppressed state
because we need to give
equal attention to what
is threatening and painful.
I mean, it's part of our lives.
And we need to digest it and
integrate it into our psyches
both individually and socially.
And when "The Secret"
says, don't give attention
to what is negative or dark
because you'll make more of it,
I think that really is
very serious misinformation
because you really need
to bring that which
is dark or negative or
unconscious to consciousness
through being aware of it.
Otherwise you can't integrate
it and make it conscious.
>>DAVID: Well, let me
play devil's advocate
for a second just for fun.
Somebody is going
to say-- somebody
in the audience watching
this is going to say, well,
you're actually enabling
the bad because attention
feeds what it's paid to.
That's why it's called
paying attention.
You're paying the negative
if you pay attention to it.
>>ANDREWS: Well, consciousness
is consciousness,
whether it's yours or
mine or the universe's.
And everything in existence
is part of consciousness.
And for human beings, our
so-called conscious mind
is only 3% to 5% of our
neurophysiological psychology,
as I've said before.
And you know, if we want
to integrate what we're
unconscious about, which
is 99.9999% or more
of what there is, we need
to consciously attend to it.
Conscious attention
is quite a bit
different than
unconscious awareness.
So if we want to integrate
what the universe is already
embodying, and integrate it
into our personal consciousness
so that we're not
ignorant of it,
then we really need to attend
to it in an undivided way
and experience the potentials of
those negative and dark aspects
in order to understand
them and have the insight
into our shadow material.
>>DAVID: I think there's a trap.
Would you agree
that there's a trap
that people fall into a sort
of metaphysical narcissism,
where they're hip to the idea
that your awareness that you're
thinking with is
the universal mind,
but maybe they're not also
situationally aware of the fact
that we are all here
and that we are all
co-creating the tapestry of
reality that we experience.
>>ANDREWS: Yes, I agree
with completely, that our--
with individuals who have a
lot of psychokinetic behavior
around them--
>>DAVID: That's moving
objects with their mind.
>>ANDREWS: And they don't even
know that they're doing it,
the ones that are really
just innately that way.
>>DAVID: Like the
poltergeist case.
>>ANDREWS: Like let's
say I was angry at you,
and something comes across
the room and hits you.
I didn't know that I did that to
you because I was angry at you.
But I think, ah, he
got what he deserved.
I mean, this is
actually the case.
And these people that have this
natural psychokinetic phenomena
going on around them are people
that are very highly emotional,
but they can't express it or
give form to it very well.
So it comes out in
psychokinetic phenomena.
And so on a mass scale,
you see humanity.
Humanity is extremely emotional
body of seven billion people
that is not very able
to express itself
as a single consciousness,
as a unified consciousness.
We're collectively unconscious.
And so we're producing the Earth
changes, as many have said.
And there are examples from,
like, the Iroquois Indians.
They believed they
had a long body,
and that everyone
in the tribe really
was elements in that long body.
And if an individual
in the tribe got ill,
then the tribe would
attend to that individual
and bring them back into
this collective consciousness
and heal them that way,
through consciousness.
They wouldn't avoid the person
and go, like no, no, no,
you must be paying attention
to the devil, you know.
We've got to exclude
you and not tend to you,
just let you fall off
the deep end, you know.
That wouldn't be very loving
or inclusive of the tribe.
I mean, the tribe
would slowly fall apart
that way because of
course, if you're
under threat of
being exiled, that's
one of the worst
things you can happen
to a person living in nature,
in a tribal circumstance.
>>DAVID: It's a death
sentence, basically.
>>ANDREWS: It's
a death sentence.
And not only is it difficult
to survive by yourself,
but to emotionally be exiled
that way and ostracized is
horrendous psychologically.
>>DAVID: Sure.
>>ANDREWS: And so to be
inclusive of everything
in an undivided way, to
really own everything,
that's what used to
be said, is that we
need to own whatever it
is that's going on for us.
And if we don't own it,
we can't transform it.
>>DAVID: The
perspective that you
have would seem to indicate that
our whole concept of failure
in and of itself is a failure.
How does failure-- is there
such a thing as failure,
in your view, after having
had a near-death experience
and trying to reintegrate
fragments of yourself?
Do you think of there being
such a thing as failure?
And if the average person,
whatever that means,
thinks that there is
failure in their life, how
does that equate with a
perspective of us actually
just being part of this
divine universal awareness?
>>ANDREWS: My sense, and
I would say the sense of--
going back thousands
of years-- is
that there is this indivisible
unity that is life,
is the cosmos.
And there's no right and
wrong, in some sense,
because everything is integrated
by this singular consciousness.
It has to be digested
and assimilated and made
sense of by this
singular consciousness.
So if somebody does
something terrible,
no matter how
terrible, or something
happens to us that's terrible
that we need to integrate,
that whole process of
integration, or healing
from that evil
behavior or whatever,
has to take place as
a learning experience.
And learning is an
ever-present activity.
So in order to learn,
often we have to unlearn.
And so we unlearn
in the presence
of this featureless,
imageless consciousness which
is the very root of our
moment to moment awareness.
So we present what
we feel and think.
If we're being honest
and transparent,
we allow this ever greater
quality of self awareness
to notice that which
is unconscious in us,
and bring and integrate
that into our consciousness.
>>DAVID: So can
there be failure?
>>ANDREWS: So failure is just
another learning experience.
The military, for example, they
have these military exercises,
and everybody ends up being
dead in the end, pretty much.
And they film it all on
video, and then they say,
you see how you died there?
You didn't need to
die because if you'd
done this, done it better,
you wouldn't have died, etc.
And so same with chess playing.
If you play get somebody that's
better than you and you fail
again and again
and lose, you learn
to play chess better,
more rapidly than if you
were winning all the time.
So failure is a
very integral part
of learning and
growing and becoming
more competent and
conscious and skilled.
>>DAVID: Do you think that--
getting back to the
concept of people saying,
well, I'm not creating
the Earth changes--
that they would see the
Earth changes as a failure,
or they would see the existence
of a cabal, an Illuminati
cartel running the planet
through the financial system--
do people feel that that
would mean that we as a planet
are a failure, and that's why
they don't want to look at it?
>>ANDREWS: In the same way
we want to possess or go
towards the light, if you will,
go towards what is pleasurable
and promising, as I've said,
that is very natural for us
as creatures.
You can put in a cell,
a petri dish with cells,
and put a toxin near them,
and they'll draw away from it.
Put something that
they do want to eat
and they'll move towards it.
>>DAVID: Or here you're just
describing the actual chemical
effect on the cells.
>>ANDREWS: Well,
the cells, they know
whether something is
going to harm them
or whether it's going to
be nourishing for them.
So they'll withdraw
from what is toxic
and move towards what is
beneficial, if you will.
So people will
move away from what
they imagine is failure,
especially if you begin
to calcify some belief about XYZ
is a failure, like if you don't
have enough money or you're
poor or you're not famous
or something, then you want
to move towards fame and money
and power.
So that's a very natural thing.
And I think the Illuminati are
really taking advantage of that
and using these natural
instincts to manipulate
in order to gain and maintain
control over mass populations.
>>DAVID: So people's own
sense of perfectionism,
and wanting to believe
in a happy ending,
that people are basically
good at heart, and
that there is a god
makes them say,
well, God wouldn't
allow there to be a
group that's controlling
the planet like this.
God wouldn't allow
these things to happen.
>>ANDREWS: Well, you
know, the average person
is chronically contracted.
And so what's most
accessible is what they think
and what they
believe on principle.
And so religions that are based
on just swallowing these belief
systems hook, line, and
sinker are very prevalent.
So Christian fundamentalism
or Islamic fundamentalism
are very powerful forces on
the planet, or scientism,
the belief in science as a
dogma, the belief that we're
separate individuals,
when in fact humanity
has a multiple personality
disorder and is
in denial about
the fact that we're
part of a single greater
body, heart, and mind
that is really universal.
>>DAVID: Let's talk a little
more about that fragmentation.
I wanted to bring in
the concept of failure
because I think if a person
was told that they have
a fragment of their psyche
that they don't normally
have conscious access to that's
drawing away energy from them,
they would say, well, only a
crazy person would have that,
and I'm not crazy.
If I had a fragment in my mind,
if I wasn't a whole person,
I would be a
failure, and I can't
allow myself to be a failure.
Therefore, I must
not be fragmented,
and I had a wonderful childhood
and I loved my parents,
and I had lots of
friends in school.
And I've never
fought with my wife
and I've never had
trouble with my boss.
So let's explore that a
little bit, people's concept
of failure and how
the concept of failure
may encourage fragmentation
of the psyche.
>>ANDREWS: They say denial
is a river in Egypt, which
is not really what denial is.
I mean, we're avoiding
what we believe is toxic.
We're afraid.
We're withdrawing our
attention from what
is painful and threatening.
And so the multiple personality
is going on within us.
We have all these
sub personalities
which are holding the
bag for all these ways
in which we're afraid to really
face them as a part of ourself.
So we don't want
to look at the fact
that we have quote,
unquote failed.
We want to think,
no, we're succeeding.
And so people are believing
in a fantasy self.
You know, who they
think they are,
what they think they're
doing is really neurotic.
It's actually psychotic.
It's actually-- they're cut
off from the actual reality
that they have these multiple
personalities that they
need to talk to, need
to journal with them.
They need to get to know them,
bring them to consciousness.
And then when this internal
community, as well as
the external community
of friends and family,
are in good quality
communication,
then there's this sense of
really genuine well-being.
But like Doctor Colin
Ross, who was the president
of the International Society
for the Study of Multiple
Personality and Disorder, who
has written a couple of books
on the MKUltra type of
mind control, for example,
with the Cathy
O'Brien and so forth--
whole interesting area there--
I spoke with him once and I
talked to him about the idea
that humanity had a multiple
personality disorder,
because people with multiple
personality disorder, when
one personality comes on
and takes executive control
over the body mind, that could
be a six-year-old little girl,
and another personality can then
take over in the same person,
and it can be a 40-year-old
man that speaks six languages.
And eye color can change.
Open lesions on the skin
can appear or disappear.
Allergies to orange
juice can come and go.
>>DAVID: And there's a
completely different set
of brainwave activities
on MRI scans.
>>ANDREWS: Yes.
So if that can happen
with a single individual,
what's going on between and
among seven billion of us?
>>DAVID: I think if we go back
to Eckhart Tolle, who you've
mentioned before, the
concept of a pain body,
sort of like an overarching
concept for this idea.
And I've seen it in
people who I know.
They do not remember what
is said in an argument
because unless they're in the
state where they're arguing,
they're not really
accessing those memories.
It's like the memories
are safely held away.
"Well, I never said that.
I never said that."
But I was right there.
So what do you think
is happening there?
What is this pain body
that Eckhart Tolle
was talking about?
>>ANDREWS: Well, I
mean, we definitely
want to identify with
that part of us that
feels most capable obviously,
that feels like I'm OK,
you're OK, everything's OK.
You know, that feels a lot safer
to identify with what seems OK,
whereas the pain body obviously
is not getting the kind
and quality of
identification or attention
that this supposedly
OK sub personality that
is in executive
control of us at that
time when we're dissociating
in the service of the ego,
as they call it.
There's association in the
service of ego and dissociation
in the service of the ego.
And so you can associate
with the pain body
in the service of maturing
and growing and resolving
the narrow mindedness and
the self-destructive nature
of your ego.
So we have to mature our egos.
We have to actually
attend to them
see how limited and limiting
they are, how much in denial
they are about what we've
dissociated and suppressed,
and re-invite these painful
memories and traumas
to give them the undivided
attention that they need
to be fully digested and
assimilated and integrated
into this one being that
we are that transcends
any fragmentation.
>>DAVID: This concept of
mass group meditation.
Is there something to it?
Can we heal the
planet by recognizing
that the ego is
looking for an enemy
and that we don't actually
have an enemy per se?
>>ANDREWS: Well, as long
as we are identified
with only a piece of
all that we actually
are individually and
indivisibly together,
we have a reason
to be in danger.
We are in danger.
We're deep in the sixth
mass extinction that's
being brought about by us
because of our fragmentation
and this piecemeal
kind of consciousness.
We're missing the
peace, P-E-A-C-E,
that we need to be feeling
together in order to have
a peaceful civilization,
have one that functions
in a sustainable--
Faith is-- radiating that faith
and that peace that you are
going to be OK--
really does influence
the environment.
And when they have these group
meditations of, you know,
7,000 or 8,000 people
gathered together,
it affects the social indices
in a wide spectrum of ways.
The economic index is
benefiting more people.
There's less crime,
and many other elements
that show consistent benefit
when people are conscious
together.
And as you know, there's
been nearly 40 studies that
have demonstrated that
that were organized
by these neuroscientists
and physicists,
and psychologists of the
Maharishi International
University.
And John Hagelin is in
charge, essentially,
there, who ran for president
on the Natural Law party.
>>DAVID: Let's talk about
this a little bit more.
I want to make sure we don't
brush over it too quickly.
The particular data
point that I've
used the most, that
John Hagelin actually
used when he was
running for president,
was a group of 7,000
people meditated together,
and according to statistics
from Rand Corporation,
the overall index of
terrorist activity on Earth--
there's a fairly
moderate baseline
that they can measure how
much terrorism is occurring.
During the week
that they did this--
7,000 people were
meditating in one area--
worldwide, 72% less
terrorist activity.
It's incredible.
And the question
becomes-- you're
saying that we have multiple
personality disorder
as a human civilization.
This suggests that what
those 7,000 people were doing
has a disproportionate
effect on everyone,
as if we're all
sharing one mind.
Now what's so magical
about these 7,000 people?
Are they doing
anything spectacular?
Are they special
yogis and ascended
beings that are levitating?
What is the process
that's being done here?
What's the magic?
What's the secret sauce?
>>ANDREWS: Well, they're
noticing the quality
and presence of their noticing.
And noticing
quantum mechanically
in physics, the
physics of the cosmos,
is that there is this aspect
that is equally everywhere.
We always tend to think
that things are localized
and objectify, you're
there, I'm here.
But there is that which
is at the very basis
of our consciousness that we're
utilizing right this moment,
which is spaceless and timeless.
And as a result, it can be
omnipresent and omnipotent,
and omniscient.
It acts like a mirror.
Imagine mirroring,
that at every level
there is a particle, or
appearance of a particle,
and actually no particles.
But they behave like particles,
and that at the same time there
this manifest
behavior, there is also
at the same time and moment,
this mirror-like behavior.
And so the whole of space,
time, energy, and matter,
the entire universe
is being mirrored
by this dimensionless dynamic.
>>DAVID: If it's neither
a particle nor a wave,
how does that affect the concept
of me for the average person?
When they are
confronted with this--
what for a lot of people,
they're going to say,
well, that was all geek
speak, because we're now
talking at a very high
intellectual level here.
It's going to go over a
lot of people's heads.
But how does this ground
back into the concept
of the individual?
And what can people
learn from what
we're talking about
scientifically, that this
actually is the way
the universe is?
What does that mean for a
person trying to pay their bills
and feed their family?
>>ANDREWS: I think one
of the big obstacles
is that we want to claim to
our imagination, who we think
we are, what we
think we're doing,
which is a manifest form,
whereas this awakeness is
formless and imageless.
And we need to get to know
that because by doing that,
we begin to realize what these
dimensionless points are.
They're actually vestiges
of the primordial void out
of which manifestation
materialized.
And we can actually understand
how that void collapsed
by first appearing as a
dimensionless point which
has no energy and no location
in the traditional sense.
But it is a location,
even though it
has no wavelength or frequency.
It's a stillness, like
Eckhart Tolle talks
about, this silence which the
ancients have talked about,
that we are ultimately,
at our very most core.
And by recognizing this
stillness and this silence,
which is non-manifest,
which isn't anything.
The Buddhists talk about it
as this primordial emptiness
that everything came from.
They call it sat purusha, and
that the light of consciousness
emerges from this point.
And then all points that
expand from that point
are really all still
the same point.
So really everything
in manifestation
is still connected to this
source or origin, which
is dimensionless, which actually
frees us to be free spirits.
We are this which is localizing
the non-local whole as that
which is dimensionless, as
this observer of manifestation
as really nothing in
particular, nothing measurable.
We are ineffable and boundless,
and indivisible, and immortal,
ultimately.
And so for the average
person to realize--
and all people, our species--
to realize that we are
this uncreated, unborn--
as the ancients
have talked about--
immortal being that is ever
present and unchanging, that we
are then, through the
quality of our perceptions,
what we choose to pay attention
to, how well we pay attention
individually and together, we
can actually make it all up.
And we've actually
been making it all up.
It's like we're in the sandbox
with our bucket and our shovel,
playing like children.
And when we realize
that we really
are free to co-create this
world more and more consciously,
and that's really what
human evolution is about,
then the average Joe
with their wife and kids
realize that they're
completely free-spirited.
There's nothing to be afraid of.
We need to come into
this unitive awakeness
that the ancients
have talked about,
and that I've been exploring
for 30 years with these groups.
And what we notice
together and access,
this commonly sensed
intelligence, this one
infinitely,
incomparably unique form
that we appear to be as space,
time, energy and matter, mind
and body.
And we can, at the
same time in a moment,
experience our formless,
eternal, unchanging nature,
which gives us power to
recreate and shape and sculpt
the reality that we
are experiencing.
>>DAVID: A conventional
view about problems,
like, let's look at
the national deficit.
We're racking up this
tremendous, tremendous debt.
Let's look at climate change.
The world seems to be
unraveling at the seams.
Let's look at international
relations and politics and war.
We have been conditioned to
believe that these problems are
complex and they require
complex solutions,
that the solution must involve
spending a lot of money,
taking a lot of time, all this
thinking, all this intricacy,
poring over the fine
points in the contracts
that we signed 1,000 years ago.
How do we bridge this bias
that the average person would
have to thinking that
these problems are
so complicated
and insurmountable
with the simplicity of
something like the meditation
effect, where people
simply go into that state
of meditative consciousness
and the problems in the world
seem to be solving themselves?
Do we need complexity to
solve the world's problems?
Do we need to be thinking it
through in great, great depth
and detail?
>>ANDREWS: Well, we
are ever more complex
every single moment
because we are really
co-creating this universe
with everything in it.
So it's increasing
in complexity.
It's expanding and accelerating
by scientific measure,
so forth.
But as we become more
and more complex,
we need to access our
utter simplicity, which
is this dimensionless quality.
In order to really anchor this
ever increasing complexity
of creation,
manifest creation, we
are able, because we're
noticing more every moment,
we're more capable.
Our ability to observe is
becoming ever more refined
every moment.
And we're able to notice
the fineness, just like we
have engineered automobile
tires to spin around a very
dimensionless axis.
And so there's no
wobble in the tire.
Humanity is right in
the midst of learning
how to share a common
axis which is really
omnipresent, and omnipotent.
It's what gives us
our omniscient ability
to share a commonly
sensed intelligence
as a species, which
takes us out of conflict,
out of contentiousness, and
into this golden age, which
has been promised by seers for
hundreds or thousands of years.
>>DAVID: Do you really believe
that people are going for that?
Because it seems like the
good are getting better
and the bad are getting worse.
It seems like society is
becoming more polarized.
>>ANDREWS: Well, as Eckhart
Tolle said, you know,
it's getting worse at the same
time that it's getting better.
You know, it's paradoxical.
I mean, the people
that have a lot
to integrate into their
consciousness, of course,
are going to feel
like victimized.
They're going to feel
helpless and powerless
and overwhelmed
by this digestion
and assimilation individually
and on a mass level.
They're going to feel it's
completely impossible,
that we're going to
hell in a hand basket.
And then there's going to be--
there are relatively
few people that
are going to be visionaries,
that are going to see--
as cells in the
body of humanity--
are going to see
that we can wake up,
and how we can help popularize
this capacity that we share,
all of us.
But there's going
to be, inevitably,
that sense that people are going
to see enemies in other people
because they feel so helpless.
When you feel contracted
and you feel isolated,
the tendency is to be
paranoid and to think
that everything around you is
coming to get you or whatever.
And then in extreme
cases, people
get completely schizophrenic
and crazy about it
and start imagining
things and actually seeing
enemies and Satan everywhere.
So the fundamentalists
are really
having a hard time right now.
And so is the power elite.
I mean, they've
been the ones that
have been trying to
manage the situation
and any kind of group that is--
especially secretive
groups that have been
trying to gain an advantage--
as we wake up to a commonly
sensed consciousness
and realize that that's what
we've always been and always
will be, and we begin
to be noticed together
in a fully embodied
way as a species,
that will spread like
the dawn coming up.
And even the most evil
and most fragmented
will begin to feel this
realization and illumination
to a sense of, really, that they
don't need to be controlling,
and they don't need to
be hurting and harming
other people, and living
off other people's suffering
like these sadomasochists that
literally are so unable to feel
themselves that they have to
hurt others on a mass level
in order to feel
anything at all.
But they've been an
integral part of our growth,
because we need to forgive
them because they are really
just doing what all of us have
been doing but at a much more
extreme level.
And we've been hiding from
the pain in our bodies
and our hearts and our minds.
And they're just doing it
for the whole of humanity.
>>DAVID: Can you
give the audience
some pointers as
to how they would
create this state of awareness?
Is it a meditation practice?
And what would they be doing
if they want to be at home,
and they want to create a
resonant frequency that's going
to help improve the planet?
What would they be doing?
>>ANDREWS: Thank you
for that question.
Yes.
It's extremely simple.
We've developed this, thousands
of people over the last 30
years that I've been
facilitating this experience
with, we've got it down to as
simple as it could possibly be.
It's basically replicating
what happens in
meditation when it works,
and translating that
into what you can do
as a group of people,
whether it's your family, your
coworkers or friends, or just
you with your lover or
best friend or whatever.
But it can work throughout
the whole of humanity.
You can have these
pods of people
doing this, any group of
people, like 12 step groups come
together.
Miscellaneous people, total
strangers meet each other
and they have this
healing experience.
This is like the 13th
step, if you will.
And all you have to do
is have a conversation
according to certain
guidelines, where
you don't refer to the past or
to the future when you speak.
What you talk about, just like
if you were having a business
meeting where you talk about
the bottom line, like, you know,
how are we going to make
more money as a corporation?
Instead of talking
about money and what
we can get for
ourselves, we describe
with our verbal,
analytic left brain
what it is that we're
experiencing as awareness.
So we give our verbal, analytic
left brain something to do,
which causes it to become
involved with this formless,
imageless awakeness, which
is uniting everything.
It's where everything
is happening.
Everything is always
happening in awakeness.
It's been that way since
we were little babies.
Every moment of our
life, everything
has always happened
in this awakeness.
And we're going to awake to
it through this exercise,
we realize that your
awakeness and my awakeness
are not two separate
awakenesses.
There's really
only one awakeness
and always ever has been.
And that's where we've looked
for this unconditional love
and trust and unity
with our parents,
is by just sharing
undivided attention with us,
we feel their love,
and they feel our love.
And we feel this
beautiful happiness
as children with
our parents when
there's a proper
conscious relationship.
So we're practicing
a way of bringing
about this unconditional eternal
love which is ever present,
always been present.
And we're gaining access to
it by giving attention to it.
So I look into your awareness
and you look into mine.
We look with both our
eyes, to begin with,
into the left eye
of our partner.
And we create partner pairs,
and we each gaze and speak
in turn, one at a time.
And over the course of
the minimum of 90 minutes
together-- but it's better to do
it for longer, like two hours.
Three or four hours is
even much, much better,
because we have to
shift the momentum
and conditioning of this
separative way of paying
attention.
We have to change our
attentional style by attending
in an undevided way together.
So it's said that we're
going from the head
to the heart that's the greatest
journey we ever go through.
And we want to be able to
get the head and the heart
functioning together where
we're sentiently, emotionally,
psychologically, intuitively,
mentally experiencing
them as a unity, not
only alone but together.
So we're gazing into the
left eye to begin with.
And then after a while we
can gaze into both eyes.
Becomes very relaxing.
And we just take
turns in a group,
let's say a group
of eight people.
You don't speak
again after you've
spoken until everybody else
in the group has spoken.
And you just speak
about awareness
but by attempting
to describe it.
And it's virtually
indescribable.
But by attempting to describe
it, you become humbled.
You begin to notice your
awareness and your partner's
awareness as one
single awareness.
And you start describing
this sense of shared
empathic information and
interconnectedness and silence
and stillness that's
at the very core.
And you begin to feel it
in your hearts together.
You begin to feel it in every
cell of your body together.
And you go into this shared
sensitivity together.
And there's this pure
intelligence joy there.
Joy naturally arises.
And this loving kindness
and pure intelligence
and the separate self,
the separate ego,
which is normally so isolated
and afraid in seeing the other
and distrusting the other,
is nowhere to be found.
After about 15, 20
minutes of the exercise,
it's like, where did my ego go?
There's no ego anymore.
There's just experiencing.
So the subject and
the object disappear,
and they disappear
into the verb,
into the action of
experiencing, observing,
of feeling, of thinking.
The experience of
thinking is going on,
but it doesn't really
matter what you're thinking.
You experience the energy
of thinking, the energy
of sensing, feeling, being,
loving, existing, coexisting,
watching.
All these verbs become what
is central in the foreground
of your experience and
your shared experience.
And you explore that
with your friends
or whatever group you assemble.
And you just keep going
round and around like that
and keep talking
about awakeness.
And you'll find that you enter
into this cosmic consciousness
that would have taken you
days and days of meditation
to get to, and probably
would have never even gotten
there because you would
have been so overwhelmed
by the fragmentation
of your own thought.
But when you do it
as a group, your mind
goes silent almost
immediately because
of the magnitude of
your awareness and mine,
even right now.
I'm talking without thinking.
It's just this knowing
is able to speak.
And so it's really not
Sperry that's speaking.
It's our knowing that's able to
relate to itself through words
pointing at what is
really nonverbal,
which is really something
which really transcends
the limits of thought
and self-concept.
>>DAVID: So where can
people find out more about--
obviously this is a topic you've
spent many years developing.
You've had a lot
of success with it.
You've been able to transform
individuals and groups.
Where do people find
out more information
if they want to learn more about
your technique and practice it?
>>ANDREWS: You can go
to the Human Connection
Institute, which I
founded over 20 years ago.
On there you can find
my email address.
You can write to me.
And there are materials there
on that website you can look at.
There's videos there.
You can see artwork that if
you look at it together and see
what you both see in
it, will bring you
into a sense of shared
telepathic and somatic
intelligence.
And there are published essays
there, peer reviewed articles,
and scientific research
that you can take a look at,
and this film that
we talked about,
which brings theater
audiences into a commonly
sensed consciousness.
>>DAVID: Well, Sperry
Andrews, I want to thank you
for coming out here.
And this has been a real
privilege and an honor.
So thank you very much.
>>ANDREWS: Well,
it's a real honor
to be here with you, David.
[THEME MUSIC]